Chapter 4 Author Review (#49)
tidy-survey-r/tidy-survey-book: 04-understanding-survey-data-documentation.Rmd

# Understanding survey data documentation {#c04-understanding-survey-data-documentation}

<!-- author review -->

```{r}
library(tidyverse)
library(censusapi)
library(srvyr)
```

> Before diving into survey analysis, it's crucial to review the survey documentation thoroughly. This documentation includes technical guides, questionnaires, codebooks, errata, and other useful resources. By taking the time to review these materials, we can gain a comprehensive understanding of the survey data and effectively conduct our analysis. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before diving into survey analysis, it's crucial to review the survey documentation thoroughly. This documentation includes technical guides, questionnaires, codebooks, errata, and other useful resources. By taking the time to review these materials, we can gain a comprehensive understanding of the survey data (including research and design decisions discussed in Chapters \@ref(c02-overview-surveys) and \@ref(c03-specifying-sample-designs)) and effectively conduct our analysis. 
```

# Understanding survey data documentation {#c04-understanding-survey-data-documentation}

<!-- author review -->

```{r}

> library(tidyverse)

Reviewer: Let's add a set up section where we pull all this in.

### Questionnaires

A questionnaire is a series of questions asked to obtain information from survey respondents. A questionnaire gathers opinions, behaviors, or demographic data by employing different types of questions, such as closed-ended (e.g., radio button select one or check all that apply), open-ended (e.g., numeric or text), Likert scales, or ranking questions. It may randomize the display order of responses or include instructions to help respondents understand the questions. A survey may have one questionnaire or multiple, depending on its scale and scope.

The questionnaire is an essential resource for understanding and interpreting the survey data (see Section \@ref(overview-design-questionnaire)), and we should use it alongside any analysis. It provides details about each of the questions asked in the survey, such as question name, question wording, response options, skip logic, randomizations, display specification, mode differences, and the universe (if only a subset of respondents were asked the question).

> Below in Figure \@ref(fig:que-examp), we show a question from the ANES 2020 questionnaire. This figure shows a particular question's question name (`postvote_rvote`), description (Did R Vote?), full wording of the question and responses, response order, universe, question logic (if `vote_pre` = 0), and other specifications. The section also includes the variable name, which we can link to the codebook.

Reviewer: Need a citation for where the example comes from.

knitr::include_graphics(path="images/questionnaire-example.jpg")
```

> The content and structure of questionnaires vary depending on the specific survey. For instance, question names may be informative (like the ANES example), sequential, or denoted by a code.  In some cases, surveys may not use separate names for questions and variables. Figure \@ref(fig:que-examp-2) shows a question from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) questionnaire that shows a sequential question number and a coded variable name (as opposed to a question name).

Reviewer: Need citation for BRFSS example.

knitr::include_graphics(path="images/questionnaire-example-2.jpg")
```

> Given the variety in documentation, it is essential to consider the specific survey when interpreting the information presented in a questionnaire. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this sentence is getting at.

### Codebooks

While a questionnaire provides information about the questions asked to respondents, the codebook explains how the survey data was coded and recorded. The codebook lists details such as variable names, variable labels, variable meanings, codes for missing data, values labels, and value types (whether categorical or continuous, etc.). In particular, the codebook often includes information on missing data (as opposed to the questionnaire). The codebook enables us to understand and use the variables appropriately in our analysis.

> Figure \@ref(fig:codebook-examp) is a question from the ANES 2020 codebook. This part indicates a particular variable's name (`V202066`), question wording, value labels, universe, and associated survey question (`postvote_rvote`).

Reviewer: Again, cite for ANES.

knitr::include_graphics(path="images/codebook-example.jpg")
```

> Reviewing both questionnaires and codebooks in parallel is important, as questions and variables are not one-to-one. A single question may have multiple associated variables, or a single variable may summarize multiple questions. Reviewing the codebook clarifies how to interpret the variables. 

Author: ```suggestion
Reviewing both questionnaires and codebooks in parallel is important, as questions and variables do not always correspond directly to each other in a one-to-one mapping. A single question may have multiple associated variables, or a single variable may summarize multiple questions. Reviewing the codebook clarifies how to interpret the variables.
```

### Errata

An erratum (singular) or errata (plural) is a document that lists errors found in a publication or dataset, such as a survey questionnaire. The purpose of an erratum is to correct or update mistakes or inaccuracies in the original document.

> For example, if a survey questionnaire contains an error, such as a typo or confusing wording, the researchers would release an erratum that provides a corrected version. Review these corrections before conducting any analysis to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the survey data and analysis.   

Author: ```suggestion
For example, if a survey questionnaire contains an error, such as a typo or confusing wording, the researchers would release an erratum that provides a corrected version. Another type of erratum is incorrectly programmed skips in an electronic survey where questions are skipped by the respondent when they should not have been. Review these errata before conducting any analysis to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the survey data and analysis.
```

2. Missing completely at random (MCAR): The missing data is unrelated to both observed and unobserved data, and the probability of being missing is the same across all cases. For example, if a respondent missed a question because they had to leave the survey early due to an emergency.

3. Missing at random (MAR): The missing data is related to observed data but not unobserved data, and the probability of being missing is the same within groups. For example, if older respondents choose not to answer specific questions but younger respondents do answer them, and know the respondent's age.

4. Missing not at random (MNAR): The missing data is related to unobserved data, and the probability of being missing varies for reasons we are not measuring. For example, if respondents with depression do not answer a question about depression severity.

> The survey documentation, often the codebook, represents the missing data with a code. For example, a survey may have "Yes" responses coded to `1`, "No" responses coded to `2`, and missing responses coded to `-9`. Or, the codebook may list different codes depending on why certain data is missing. In the example of variable `V202066` from the ANES (Figure \@ref(fig:codebook-examp)), `-9` represents "Refused," `-7` means that the response was deleted due to an incomplete interview, `-6` means that there is no response because there was no follow-up interview, and `-1` means "Inapplicable" (due to the designed skip pattern). 

Reviewer: We don't need to repeat the same codebook example.  Just use the figure # to reference back to the first one.

Missing data in surveys refers to situations where participants do not provide complete responses to survey questions. Respondents may not have seen a question by design. Or, they may not respond to a question for various other reasons, such as not wanting to answer a particular question, not understanding the question, or simply forgetting to answer. 

> Missing data can be a significant problem in survey analysis, as it can introduce bias and reduce the representativeness of the data. There are several different types of missing data^[Mack C, Su Z, Westreich D. Managing Missing Data in Patient Registries: Addendum to Registries for Evaluating Patient Outcomes: A User’s Guide, Third Edition [Internet]. Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2018 Feb. Types of Missing Data. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK493614/]:   

Author: Perhaps split these into two categories 1) missing by design (skip patterns) and 2) unintentional missing mechanisms

knitr::include_graphics(path="images/codebook-example.jpg")
```

> When running analysis in R, we must missing responses as missing data (i.e., `NA`) and not numeric data. If missing responses are treated as zeros or arbitrary values, they can artificially alter summary statistics or introduce spurious patterns in the analysis. 

Author: Wording isn't quite right in first sentence. Perhaps ...we must **set** missing responses as missing data...

Dealing with missing data due to skip patterns requires careful consideration.  We can treat skipped questions as missing data. Or, we can run an analysis that accounts for the conditional dependence between the skipped and answered questions. The appropriate method depends on the nature and extent of the skip patterns, the research questions, and the methodology. For example, if we wanted to know what proportion of eligible voters voted for a particular candidate, the denominator would be all eligible voters, while if we wanted to know what proportion voted for a specific candidate among those who voted, the denominator would be those who voted. We include or exclude missing values depending on our research question.

> ### Accounting for MCAR, MAR, and MNAR missingness 

Reviewer: Do we want to spell these out in headers?  I did with BRR in ch3.

When dealing with missing data that is MCAR, MAR, or MNAR, we must consider the implications of how we handle these missing data and avoid introducing more sources of bias. For instance, we can analyze only the respondents who answered all questions by performing listwise deletion, which drops all rows from a data frame with a missing value in any column. We can use the function `tidyr::drop_na()` for listwise deletion. In the example below, only the first row will remain:

```{r}

> #| label: drop-na-example 

Reviewer: Should we display dat before we filter just so people can easier see the differences?

  tidyr::drop_na()
```

Suppose our data is not missing completely at random (MCAR). In that case, listwise deletion may produce biased estimates if there is a pattern of respondents who do not respond to specific questions. In these circumstances, we should explore other options, such as multiple imputation or weighted estimation. However, imputation is not always appropriate and can introduce its own sources of bias. See Allison (2002) for more detail.  

In summary, we need to deeply understand the types and reasons for missing data in our survey before running any analysis. The survey documentation is an important resource for understanding how to deal with missing data. Carefully review the documentation for guidance from the researchers.

## Example: American National Election Studies (ANES) 2020 survey documentation 

> Let's look at the survey documentation for the American National Election Studies (ANES) 2020. The survey website is located at [https://electionstudies.org/data-center/2020-time-series-study/](https://electionstudies.org/data-center/2020-time-series-study/).  

Reviewer: Let's add a formal citation to this as well

  tidyr::drop_na()
```

> Suppose our data is not missing completely at random (MCAR). In that case, listwise deletion may produce biased estimates if there is a pattern of respondents who do not respond to specific questions. In these circumstances, we should explore other options, such as multiple imputation or weighted estimation. However, imputation is not always appropriate and can introduce its own sources of bias. See Allison (2002) for more detail.  

Author: Add full citation for Allison (2002)

V200010a| V200010c| V200010d
V200010b| V200010c| V200010d

> As mentioned above, we want to conduct ANES data analysis with weights to accurately represent the population. The user guide references a supplemental document called "How to Analyze ANES Survey Data"^[DeBell, Matthew. 2010. How to Analyze ANES Survey Data. ANES Technical Report Series no. nes012492. Palo Alto, CA, and Ann Arbor, MI: Stanford University and the University of Michigan] as a 'how-to guide' to help us with our analysis. 

Reviewer: There is a bit of a cognitive jump to get to this paragraph.  We should really walk people through step by step and provide as much information as we can about this.  We don't talk ANES weights summing to the sample and why we would want to sum to the population.  We should provide this detail.

Recall the "Sample Design and Respondent Recruitment" section:

> The target population for the fresh cross-section was the 231 million non-institutional U.S. citizens aged 18 or older living in the 50 US states or the District of Columbia.

> We will use Current Population Survey (CPS) to find a number of the non-institutional U.S. citizens aged 18 or older living in the 50 U.S. states or D.C. The {censusapi} package allows us to run a reproducible analysis of this data. 

Reviewer: We use tidycensus in ch3, can we not use that here as well?

  name = "cps/basic/nov",
  vintage = 2020,
  region = "state",

>   vars = c("HRHHID", "HRMONTH", "HRYEAR4", "PRTAGE", "PRCITSHP", "PWSSWGT"), 

Reviewer: We should provide some explanation as to what the variables are that we're pulling out and why they matter.

targetpop <- cps_state %>%
  as_tibble() %>%
  filter(PRTAGE >= 18,

>          PRCITSHP %in% (1:4)) %>% 

Reviewer: We should provide detail to the reader why we're doing this and what it represents.

  pull(PWSSWGT) %>%
  sum()

targetpop
```

> The target population in 2020 is `r scales::comma(targetpop)`. This information gives us what we need to create the post-election survey object with {srvyr}. 

Reviewer: We should explain a bit more about what the target population is and walk through each of the analysis steps to get there.  OR we could just go to the CPS page and pull up the # and just cite it.  May be eaiser?

source("helper-fun/helper-functions.R")

anes_in <- read_rds_tsr("anes_2020.rds") %>%

>   mutate(Weight = V200010b / sum(V200010b) * targetpop) 

Reviewer: As I mentioned above, we need to explain why we do this.  We don't have this anywhere else.

The next section of the survey documentation is the codebook. As mentioned above, the codebook provides information about the variables in a survey dataset. We can use it to select the variables for our analysis later on.

> ## Searching for public-use survey data 

Reviewer: I'm not really a fan of this section.  I feel like there are two things conflated here: the data we use in the book, and where people can find data.

If we want to go where people find data then let's structure this differently such as:
- Many governments have publicly available data.  For example, in the U.S. you can get data directly from the various statistical agencies such as the Census Bureau or the CDC.  Or in the UK you can get data directly from the Office for National Statistics.
- There are also data repositories like ICPSR, Odum, others???
- Other websites have compiled a list of free data such as asdfree, others??

* Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS) - [https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/](https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/)
* The National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) - [https://bjs.ojp.gov/data-collection/ncvs](https://bjs.ojp.gov/data-collection/ncvs)
* Afrobarometer - [https://www.afrobarometer.org/](https://www.afrobarometer.org/)
* Latin American Public Opinion Project Research Institute - [https://www.vanderbilt.edu/lapop/](https://www.vanderbilt.edu/lapop/)   

> 

Author: ```suggestion
* Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) - [https://www.icpsr.umich.edu/web/pages/]
* American Community Survey (ACS) - [https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/microdata.html]
```
